Add information about mria (#1215)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/deploy/cluster/db.md

> # Embedded database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Cluster Scalability
```

EMQX uses an embedded [Mria](https://github.com/emqx/mria) database to store the following information:

- routing table
- sessions
- configuration
- alarms
- etc.

Mria tables are replicated across all EMQX nodes.
It also helps with the fault-tolerance: the data is safe, as long as at least one node in the cluster is alive.

> If the size of the EMQX cluster is below 5 nodes, typically no tuning of the embedded database is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the size of the EMQX cluster is below 5 nodes, typically no database scalability tuning is required.
```

> However for horizontal scalability it is recommended to split the nodes in the cluster into two groups:

Reviewer 2: However,

- core nodes
- replicant nodes

## Node roles

> *Core nodes* serve as a source of truth for the database: they are connected in a full mesh, and each one of them contains an up-to-date replica of the data.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we shouldn't mention that the replicants also are in a full mesh?  Just not a Mnesia consensus one?

Author: In this context I think it will be quite confusing.

This approach solves two problems:

- Horizontal scalability (we’ve tested EMQX cluster with 23 nodes)

- It enables autoscaling of the replicant cluster

Since replicant nodes don't participate in writes, efficiency of table updates doesn't suffer when more replicants are added to the cluster.
This allows to create larger EMQX clusters.

Also, replicant nodes are designed to be ephemeral.
Adding or removing them won't change the data redundancy, so they can be placed in an autoscaling group, thus enabling better DevOps practices.
Note, that initial replication of the data from the core nodes is a relatively heavy operation, depending on the size of the data, so autoscaling policy must not be very aggressive.

## Configuration

In EMQX 5.0 all nodes assume core role by default, so without any tweaks the cluster behaves like 4.*.

To make use of the new replication protocol, set `EMQX_NODE__DB_ROLE` environment variable or `node.db_role` setting in `emqx.conf` to `replicant` on some of the nodes in the cluster, this way they will assume replicant role. Note that there must be at least one core node in the cluster, we recommend 3 cores + N replicants setup as the starting point.

> Core nodes may accept MQTT traffic, or they can serve purely as the database server for the replicants, depending on the usecase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Core nodes may accept MQTT traffic, or they can disable all MQTT listeners to serve purely as the database server for the replicants, depending on the usecase.
```

- In a small cluster (3 nodes or less in total) it doesn't make economical sense to use replicants, so core nodes take all the traffic.
- In a very large cluster (10 nodes or more) it makes sense to move away traffic from the core nodes.
- In a medium cluster it really depends on many factors, so experimentation is needed.

## Monitoring and troubleshooting

Monitoring of the Mria performance can be done using Prometheus metrics or using Erlang console.

### Prometheus metrics
#### Core
- `emqx_mria_last_intercepted_trans`: Number of transactions received by the shard since the node start. Note that this value can be different on different core nodes.
- `emqx_mria_weight`: A value used for load balancing. It changes depending on the momentary load of the core node.

> - `emqx_mria_replicants`: Number of replicants connected to the core node, replicating data for the given shard.

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
- `emqx_mria_replicants`: Number of replicants connected to the core node. Numbers are grouped per shard.
```

> - `emqx_mria_server_mql`: Number of unprocessed transactions, waiting to be sent to the replicants. Less is better. If this metric tends to grow, more core nodes is needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `emqx_mria_server_mql`: Number of unprocessed transactions, waiting to be sent to the replicants. Less is better. If this metric tends to grow, more core nodes are needed.
```

> - `emqx_mria_server_mql`: Number of unprocessed transactions, waiting to be sent to the replicants. Less is better. If this metric tends to grow, more core nodes are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `emqx_mria_server_mql`: Number of unprocessed transactions, waiting to be sent to the replicants. Less is better. If this metric tends to grow, then it's probably time to add more computing resource for the exiting core nodes, or even add more core nodes.
```

#### Replicant
- `emqx_mria_lag`: Replicant lag, indicating how far behind the upstream core node the replicant lags. Less is better.
- `emqx_mria_bootstrap_time`: Time spent during bootstrapping of the replicant. This value doesn't change during normal operation of the replicant
- `emqx_mria_bootstrap_num_keys`: Number of database records copied from the core node during bootstrap. This value doesn't change during normal operation of the replicant
- `emqx_mria_message_queue_len`: Message queue length of the replica process. Should be around 0 all the time.
- `emqx_mria_replayq_len`: Length of the internal replay queue on the replicant. Less is better.

### Console commands

> `mria_rlog:status().` command can be executed in the EMQX erlang shell to get more extensive information about the state of the embedded database.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`mria_rlog:status().` command can be executed in the EMQX Erlang shell to get more extensive information about the state of the embedded database.
```

> `mria_rlog:status().` command can be executed in the EMQX Erlang shell to get more extensive information about the state of the embedded database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`emqx eval 'mria_rlog:status().'` command can be executed to get more extensive information about the state of the embedded database.
```
